Universal Geometrically Explicit RLEM Circuits, and Their Possible
Implementation

jpt4 UTC20150909 Rev. UTC20150915

This note demonstrates by construction the computational universality
of geometrically explicit logic circuits (GELCs) composed of certain
Reversible Logic Elements with Memory (RLEM). It is known that
circuits of 2-state 3-symbol RLEMs are computationally universal [0],
though without formal regard for the geometry of their wires. GELCs
built from sets of RLEMs {3-453, 3-3}, {3-90, 3-3}, and {3-18, 3-18w}
can simulate the universal circuits of 3-453, 3-90, and 3-18,
respectively, with the additional constraint of mandating a certain
regular tiling of RLEM nodes within a lattice that limits the design
of signal transport wires. A possible physical implementation of RLEM
comprised GELCs via electromagnetic wave circulators is discussed.

A logic circuit is geometrically explicit if it is composed of logic
circuit elements which specify, as part of their formal definitions,
the geometry (i.e. the size and shape) of the paths connecting the
output and input terminals of symbol processing
elements. Equivalently, a GELC considers the signal transport element
- the wire - as a first class component, which must be specified
alongside the processing elements of a logic circuit, rather than
being left subjective to implementation (Fig. 1).

RLEMs 3-453, 3-90, and 3-18 were chosen for translation into
geometrically explicit form because their internal signal routing
behavior can be interpreted as emitting a symbol to the "right" or
"left" output terminal, relative to the symbol's input terminal. A
"triangular" configuration of the RLEM exploits this interpretation to
define a lattice of RLEM nodes (Fig. 2). In addition to these symbol
processing elements, the GELCs constructed use the degenerate RLEMs
3-3 and 3-18w (Fig. 3), which function as wires. The signalling
interface between circuit elements is regularized by the lattice of
triangular RLEM nodes; defining a circuit is a matter of labelling the
nodes as certain RLEMs, and specifying their starting memory state
(Right or Left). Hand synthesized GELCs of triangular RLEMs which
simulate the rectagular RLEM simulation of RLEMs 2-3 and 2-4 are given
in Fig. 4 - 6. This proves by reduction the universality of the three
constructed GELCs.

Ferrite junction circulators are passive circuit elements used to
control the propagation of electromagnetic radiation [1]. Varieties
exist for EM waves at radio, microwave, and visible light
frequencies. Circulators route EMR entering one terminal to an
adjacent terminal, either clockwise or anti-clockwise, and prevent
propagation in the reverse direction. Switchable, latching circulators
have been known since at least 1968, as hybrid electric/EM devices
that use electric current induced magnetic remanence to switch the
direction of prohibited propagation from clockwise to anti-clockwise,
and vice-versa [2]. The similarity between the function of circulators
and the RLEMs under consideration in this note suggests a novel
physical implementation of RLEM circuits. In the context of RLEM based
GELCs, the lattice of nodes would be a hybrid active electric/passive
EM tessellation of switchable, latching circulators, each configured
to act as a certain RLEM. Each node would, while acting as an RLEM, be
a semantically atomic circuit element, insofar as the behavior of the
circulator is not decomposable into more primitive phenomena that
could also support logical operations. The switching circuitry is
clearly non-atomic in this sense, but ought to be minimal (the black
box separating the symbolic nature of RLEM from irreducible physical
phenomena should thus be small and easily auditable).

Further, this hypothetical lattice of circulators and auxiliary
circuitry seems poised for extension from one-time, pre-computation
circuit configuration, to dynamic component-wise reconfiguration in
the style of the RALA architecture [3], but with potentially less
per-cell machinery. Tesellation of the plane by 2-D triangular RLEMs
can be extended to fill 3-D space via a truncated octohedron honeycomb
[4]; note that because every vertex intersects three edges, a 2-D
planar mapping can be folded into 3-D space without special rerouting.

[0] Morita, K. (2013) Reversible Logic Elements with Memory and Their
    Universality

[1] https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Circulator

[2] Siekanowicz, W., and Schilling, W. (1968) A New Type of Latching
    Switchable Ferrite Junction Circulator

[3] Gershenfeld et al. (2011) Reconfigurable Asynchronous Logic
    Automata

[4] https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Honeycomb_%28geometry%29#/media/File:Truncated_octahedra.png
