Author's Note: I notice I tend to describe essentially the same
aspects of PRC in multiple ways, as this early synopsis of the project
attests. I seek to impress that this redundancy is not born of an
attempt to overwhelm third parties with hyperlexia, and instead
reflects my own efforts to articulate the nuances of the project, its
motivations and objectives.

The axiomatic trust upon which modern computers and their operators
depend is the assumption that "the transistor will switch the
signal". There are many other threads in the dependency graph,
e.g. the memory won't auto-corrupt, the wi-fi won't silently phone
home, the OS will fairly schedule tasks, but the bare minimum
necessary for viability is a bedrock assurance in the transistor
phenomenon. It is the object of Pervasively Reconfigurable Computing
(PRC) to, in a non-eliminative reductionist sense, collapse the
dependency graph to its root: the proper function of a Universal Cell
within a computing lattice.

The current graph origin already bears great responsibility. The
transistor is rightly the king of computing hardware, because its
bestrides the two domains of physics and symbolic logic. In isolating
a particular non-linear electrical amplification effect, the behavior
of the transistor can be interpreted as a operation of symbolic
Boolean logic. The transistor is capable of serving as the basic
element in computing circuits because aspects of its physical
existence correspond with basic elements of symbolic logic. This
correspondence is component-wise universal: a single transistor can
embody a single NOR gate [0].

PRC extends the functionality of the atomic computing circuit element:
the Universal Cell (UC) supports reversible, asynchronous,
geometrically explicit reconfigurable computing. A UC is at its core
the logico-physical transjunct for a Reversible Logic Element with
Memory [1], instantiable via a single latching, switchable EMF
circulator [2]. Auxiliary circuitry, in the style of RALA [3],
collate, buffer, and process reconfiguration messages passed to and
from UCs in the "stem cell" state.

[0] http://hyperphysics.phy-astr.gsu.edu/hbase/electronic/trangate.html#c5

[1] Morita, K. (2013) Reversible Logic Elements with Memory and Their
    Universality

[2] Siekanowicz, W., and Schilling, W. (1968) A New Type of Latching
    Switchable Ferrite Junction Circulator

[3] Gershenfeld et al. (2011) Reconfigurable Asynchronous Logic
    Automata
