Pervasively Reconfigurable Computing (PRC) collapses the dependency
graph of computing to its root node.

The primary goal of PRC is to build a general purpose computer with no
further dependencies than the correct function of its primitive,
homogeneous circuit elements, called "Universal Cells". In this
respect, PRC is similar to MIT's Reconfigurable Asynchronous Logic
Automata (RALA) project, though independent in origin and motivation.

Every Universal Cell must support the following behavior:
1. Reversible logic
2. Asynchronous operation
3. Explicit signal and power routing
4. Organic reconfigurability

The current proposed realization of a PRC machine theorizes a
hexagonal lattice of Reversible Logic Elements with Memory. RLEMs are
3-port, reversible, asynchronous circuit primitives with one bit of
per-element memory. Arranging these in a hexagonal lattice requires
any circuit built upon them to be geometrically explicit - the wiring
between elements must be as equally formally specified as the sequence
of logic operations. With minimal per element buffering (5-bit) and
message passing (3-bit), each node can be re-programmed to act as a
wire (routing), processor (logic), or stem (reconfiguration)
cell. Within the lattice, logical operations take the form of
rotational redirections of incoming signals, depending on the current
memory state of the cell. Redirection can flip the memory state,
altering the redirection of subsequent signals. A cell can be probed
to determine its memory state by observing along which output terminal
an incoming signal exits. Within a lattice, RLEMs unify the treatment
of logic, routing, and memory.

A switchable, latching, ferrite junction circulator is a passive EMF
circuit element with behavior substantially similar to
RLEMs. Circulators equipped with auxiliary electronics to buffer and
process reconfiguration messages would provide a hybrid electronic/EMF
implementation of a lattice of Universal Cells.

The PRC project has been the independent research of its author for
approximately the past two years. In the past six months, the project
has rapidly codified, with the establishment of a theoretical basis in
RLEMs, and a physical analogue in EMF circulators. The main effort is
currently dedicated to simulating a lattice of Universal Cells in
software. The author is a generalist, interested in the general
problem of artificial intelligence, and has little special knowledge
of digital circuit design. Much of the progress during the last two
years came only after learning sufficient in-field vocabulary to
appropriately refine search terms. As a thoroughly revisionary
project, it will be necessary to re-encapsulate the history of
computing through the lens of pervasive reconfigurability: hardware
synthesis and manufacture, programming languages, compilers, tooling,
and programming practices will be augmented along the path to top
level applications.

The prospect, however, of a machine of one's own devising, and
ultimately, its own devising, is as sufficient encouragement to
persevere, as it was to begin.
